What to do next to grow the business: a technique to help prioritise 

I'm quite good at making notes, and record keeping, so my ideas generally make it onto one of several trello boards.

What I find more difficult, is getting them all in one place, ordering and prioritising them.

One of the things I like about working on my own businesses, or with other small businesses, is the close feedback between where your next invocie is going to, or sale you'll make, and where you should be spending your efforts now. 

There's less of the unfoccussed chin stroking that can happen in larger organisations - some of it neccessary, bigger orgs require different ways of being - that you can't quite get away with in a leaner outfit. My personal favourite example of focussed skin in the game is the Christmas tree salesman to do list in early december, but that's a different story.

Anyway, once you move away from the important + urgent quadrant, there's generally a million possible tasks me and the team *could* be working on, but without good prioritisation, it's easy to find yourself with your wheels spinning, doing nothing fast.

Aside from the waste, this is emotionally taxing. Temperamentally I'm pretty comfortable with a high volume of inputs and ambiguity, but at some point it just gets too much*. 

I get overhwelm, and it's tricky to move forward. 

Which is why I'm making a note of the process we've used to prioritise today. I think it's been ruminating priompetd by some skecthes earlier this week, but we finally nailed it today.

I like ready reckoners and heuristics to not reinvent the wheel, so hopefully I can use it in otehr contexts. Like many one man bands, I'm trying to move from personalised services to standardised processes, all the while the big brands struggle to move the other way.

The process

Take each ticket, which may describe a user story, epic, or job to be done, or if you're like me, an intention or idea.

Put it in the following buckets:

1. Is it about an existing product or a new product?

We're trying to develop the bread and butter before moving onto fancy stuff. The shop is under-rented, and though the more conceptual stuff may be potentially more profitable and or more lucrative (they're different, I think), there's plenty custom we're leaving on the table by not having higher occupancy. So we're focussing on increasing volume of bookings at the moment. The more bookings, the more people see the space and experience it, the more enquires we get

What if it's a great idea for a new product?

Later, we can 

a) write out what it would entail, potential time / money / skills investment
b) decide how much capcity we have for new product development in a given quarter / half year
c) decide which one to develop


2. Is it something which will
    a) bring new customers in (increase revenue)
    b) cater to existing customer (make the experience better for the customer, staff, owners)
    
3. If it's none of the above, it probably falls into the 'Keeping the lights on' category of ongoing jobs. This shouldn't be a massive list for us

In theory this gives us a list we can then prioiritise.

I might try the coach;easyjet; private jet to further chunk down the tasks and whip up a more clearly prioritsed set of tasks that will help us cover the basics quickly, then gradually get fancier. 


So that's the process. Let's see how it works





*Incidentally, my theory is that eveyrone has a set point of ambiguity they can cope with. This set point is plastic, and like a muscle, can be stressed (in a good way), developed and grown, but if there's a load of stuff up in the air in one part of your life, it may impact how much you can deal with in others.

